---
title: "Extension 4.2: Calculator"
canvasTitle: "Extension 4.2: Calculator"
module: 4
extension: 2
points: 3
---
* This will be a TOC
{:toc}

# Authors
: [Tim Heyer](https://www.linkedin.com/in/timothyheyer)
: [Dennis Cosgrove](http://www.cs.wustl.edu/~cosgroved/)

# Overview
The purpose of this assignment is to give you the skills to index and analyze `String`s in order to prepare for different web scraping tasks. Once you are able to extract information of interest from a target `String`, you  will be ready to query a webpage, save the raw HTML code, and extract relevant information.

For this assignment, you are working on simple arithmetic expressions as `String`s. Your task is to extract the two integer values and the arithmetic operator from the `String` and save them as variables of their respective type. You will then compute and print the value of the expression.

# Example

Given: `String s = "21 + 33";`

You must extract `21` and `33` to `int` variables and `+` to a `char` or 
`String` variable. Then you will compute and print the expression `21 + 33 = 54`

# Background

As previously mentioned, the purpose of this assignment is to prepare you for dynamic web scraping tasks. As such, it is expected that you implement this assignment dynamically. In other words, the only assumption you should have about the `String` you are analyzing is that it will be in the format `(Positive Integer)(Arithmetic Operator)(Positive Integer)`. This implies your implementation should be able to run effectively on an expression containing 
positive integers of any length. It should also be able to effectively extract any arithmetic operator (+, -, *, /) and print the proper answer. Lastly, your code should be able to deal with possible spaces in the `String`.

It is important to note that there are many acceptable ways to implement this assignment. It is up to your discretion which way you choose to implement the procedure as long as it abides by the requirements described above.

Listed below are several helpful methods for this assignment. The first is from the `String` class and is called on the target `String t`. The other four are static methods. Recall that static methods are not called on a target variable as in the previous method, but rather are called on a generic object of that type.
    
* [char charAt(int i)](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/13/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/String.html#charAt(int)) : Returns the character at index `i` in `t`.  Ex: `"Hello".charAt(1)` would return `'e'` because `"Hello"` is a `String` and `'e'` is the character at index 1. 

* [boolean Character.isDigit(char c)](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/13/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/Character.html#isDigit(char)) : Returns true if `c` is a digit and false otherwise. Ex: `Character.isDigit('e')` would return `false`.

* [boolean Character.isWhitespace(char c)](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/13/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/Character.html#isWhitespace(char)) : Returns true if `c` is white space.

* [String Character.toString(char c)](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/13/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/Character.html#toString(char)) : Returns the `String` representation of a character.

* [int Integer.parseInt(String s)](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/13/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/Integer.html#parseInt(java.lang.String)) : Returns the `int` representation of a String.

# Demo Video

<center><iframe width="480" height="270" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ESftATfp3Wk?rel=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></center>

# Procedure
You should see a `calculator` package in the `src` folder.

1. The file you will modify for this assignment is `Calculator.java`.  It is already in the respository.
2. Begin by extracting the first integer value from the `String` using the methods described above. Keep in mind that the integer can be multiple digits. You might be extracting 2 or 274539.
3. Implement a similar approach for the operator and second integer.
4. Now that you have the two integers in `int` variables and the operator in a `char` or `String` variable, perform and print the simple arithmetic operation.

For example, if the input is:

  > 2 + 3

then the output should be:

  > 2 + 3 = 5

# Calculator Loop

Open `CalculatorLoop.java` and run it.  This program simply repeatedly prompts the user for input and calls `Calculator.main(args)`.  `CalculatorLoop` exists simply to avoid having re-run `Calculator` to test it with multiple inputs.

# Testing

To run the suite of unit tests, right (control) click on `CalculatorTestSuite` and choose `Run as...` then `JUnit Test`.  
