============
Extension 5.4: Memory Matching (8 points)
============

Authors
============

* Tim Huber
* Elie Schramm
* `Dennis Cosgrove <http://www.cs.wustl.edu/~cosgroved/>`_

Description
============

Your goal in this extension is to create a memory matching game using ``StdDraw`` and your growing computer science knowledge. If you've never played a memory matching game before, you can [try this version](https://www.freeboardgames.org/play/memorymatch/local) to get the general idea. Additionally, you can find a video demoing a solution [here]({{ site.baseurl }}/resources/extensions/5.04/memorymatch.mp4).

In this extension, you are going to create a matching game that uses colors rather than images.  Generating a 4x4 board with randomly arranged tiles can be a bit daunting.  We will guide you through writing a few helper methods first to perhaps inspire a solution.

Procedure
============

MemoryMatchBoard
------------------

1. Inspect ``getPalette()``.

	We have provided you with an array of colors which [should be more discernible to those who are color-blind](http://mkweb.bcgsc.ca/colorblind/img/colorblindness.palettes.v11.pdf).  You are free to change the Colors if you would like to.  If you choose to do so, why not make your application available to more people?  There are plenty of resources on the web to help [select a more inclusive palette](https://www.google.com/search?q=color+blind+color+palette).

2. Complete ``swap(board, aRow, aCol, bRow, bCol)``

	**Note:** this method should be written to be generally useful.  Therefore it should not assume a 4x4 board nor that it is filled with the colors from ``getPalette()``.  Honestly, it should not need to.  You may assume that aRow, aCol, bRow, bCol are all on the board.

3. Open ``MemoryMatchTestSuite.java`` and Run it as a JUnit Test.<br/>

4. Examine the results of the test cases.  
   * Update your ``swap()`` method until it passes all of the ``SwapTestSuite`` cases of ``MemoryMatchTestSuite`` and you are happy with its clarity.

5. Complete ``shuffle(board)``

	**Note:** this method should be written to be generally useful.  Therefore it should not assume a 4x4 board nor that it is filled with the colors from ``getPalette()``.  Honestly, it should not need to.

	**Question:** What amount of shuffling is necessary for a memory match game?

6. Run ``MemoryMatchTestSuite.java`` as a JUnit Test until you have passed all of the ``ShuffleTestSuite`` cases.

	**Note:** One should never completely rely on the results of test cases.  It would be especially perilous here.  The threshold for passing these tests are much lower than what a human would likely consider "good enough" for a memory match game.  Be sure to strive for the human's satisfaction and not just the TestSuite's passing.

7. Complete ``generateShuffled4x4Board(palette)``

	**Question:** How will you create and fill a 4x4 2D array with each of the contents of the 8 long 1D palette array twice?

	**Question:** How will you shuffle it into a random order?

8. Run ``MemoryMatchTestSuite.java`` as a JUnit Test until you have passed all of the ``GenerateBoardTestSuite`` cases.

MemoryMatchGame
------------------

1. Note the declaration of ``X`` and ``Y``.

	~~~java
	private static final int X = 0;
	private static final int Y = 1;
	~~~

	Use these to index the X and Y coordinates of the points represented as double arrays of length 2 in this extension.

2. Investigate and possibly edit ``defineWorldBoundaries()``

	How you define the world can often make problems easier or harder.  By default StdDraw's world is from (0.0, 0.0) in the bottom left hand corner to (1.0, 1.0) in the top right corner.  You can either leave it this way, or elect to modify xMin, xMax, yMin, and yMax.  Either way, you will need to:

	* convert the reported mouse position in the world space into the correct row and column of the board, and
	
	* convert the cells at particular rows and columns into the world space to draw them.

	No matter what you choose, be sure to be consistent throughout the code.

3. Complete ``waitForMouseClick()``

	The code to wait for the mouse to be presses and released has been provided.  Complete this method by returning a created an array of length 2 with the array item at the X index assigned to [StdDraw.mouseX()](https://introcs.cs.princeton.edu/java/stdlib/javadoc/StdDraw.html#mouseX--) and the array item at the Y index assigned to [StdDraw.mouseY()](https://introcs.cs.princeton.edu/java/stdlib/javadoc/StdDraw.html#mouseY--).

	~~~java
	private static double[] waitForMouseClick() {
		// wait for the mouse to be pressed
		while (!StdDraw.isMousePressed()) {
			StdDraw.pause(10);
		}
		// wait for the mouse to be released
		while (StdDraw.isMousePressed()) {
			StdDraw.pause(10);
		}

		// TODO: return the current mouse position
		
		// Delete the line below and implement this method
		throw new NotYetImplementedException();
	}
	~~~
4. Complete ``toRow(xy)``

	Based on how you have defined your world boundaries, map the ``y`` of xy into the appropriate row of the board. 

5. Complete ``toColumn(xy)``

	Based on how you have defined your world boundaries, map the ``x`` of xy into the appropriate column of the board. 

6. Investigate ``waitForClickOnRowColumn()``

	~~~java
	private static int[] waitForClickOnRowColumn() {
		double[] xy = waitForMouseClick();
		int r = toRow(xy);
		int c = toColumn(xy);
		return new int[] { r, c };
	}
	~~~

7. Complete ``drawBoard(Color[][] board, ???)``

	You will find the beginnings of a drawBoard method.  You will undoubtedly need additional parameters.

8. Consider implementing a method isGameStillAlive which takes whatever parameters are necessary and returns a true or false based on whether or not the game is still alive.

	**Note:** often it is better to pull functionality like this out into its own method.  It makes the looping in methods like the upcoming ``playGame`` method cleaner.

9. Complete ``playGame()``

	Tiles should start out hidden and should reveal their concealed color when clicked. When a single tile is clicked, it should remain visible until a second is selected. If that second selected tile does not conceal the same color as the first tile then, after a reasonable delay, both tiles should revert to hidden. If the second tile is the same color as the first tile, then both tiles can either remain flipped or simply disappear. The process then repeats. 

	The game must keep track of score. You can do this by either counting the number of clicks it takes before the full board is revealed or timing it. Once the game is over, the score should be displayed on the ``StdDraw`` canvas somewhere.
